Lingbot-VLA Native Integration and Evaluation
==================================================

This document describes how to integrate Lingbot-VLA as a native plugin into the RLinf framework and perform end-to-end policy evaluation and reinforcement learning fine-tuning in the RoboTwin 2.0 simulation environment. Unlike the traditional WebSocket communication mode, native integration completely embeds Lingbot-VLA into RLinf's Python memory space, enabling the most efficient interaction and training.

The primary objective is to equip the model with the following capabilities:

* **Visual Understanding**: Process multi-view RGB images from robot cameras (e.g., head, wrist).
* **Language Comprehension**: Understand and generalize natural-language task descriptions.
* **Action Generation**: Directly autoregressively generate high-dimensional continuous action chunks via a large model backbone (based on Qwen2.5-VL).
* **Native Interaction**: Perform zero-latency tensor-level interaction with the RoboTwin simulation environment directly within the RLinf framework.

Environment
-----------

**RoboTwin Environment**

* **Environment**: RoboTwin 2.0 physical simulation benchmark built on Sapien.
* **Task**: Command dual-arm/single-arm robots (e.g., ALOHA) to perform complex household and manipulation skills (e.g., ``click_bell``, ``open_microwave``, ``stack_blocks_three``, etc.).
* **Observation**: RGB images captured from multiple camera views.
* **Action Space**: 14-dimensional continuous actions (for dual-arm ALOHA), including absolute poses (x, y, z, roll, pitch, yaw) of both arms and gripper openness.

Task Description Format
-----------------------

Lingbot-VLA directly uses the environment-provided natural-language task description as the text prompt input for the Vision-Language Model (VLM).

Data Structure
--------------

* **Images**: RGB images from the head and left/right wrist views.
* **Task Descriptions**: Natural-language instructions (e.g., "click the bell").
* **Actions**: Action chunks of length 50 (configurable), executed in an open-loop/closed-loop policy based on historical observations.

Algorithm
---------

**Core Algorithm Components**

* **GRPO (Group Relative Policy Optimization)**
    * Advantage estimation using group-based relative rewards.
    * Policy clipping with ratio limits.
    * KL divergence regularization.

* **Lingbot-VLA (Qwen2.5-VL based)**
    * Autoregressive action chunk generation via a Vision-Language backbone.
    * Flow-SDE (Stochastic Differential Equation) based action denoising / generation.
    * Configurable ``noise_method`` (e.g., ``flow_sde``), ``noise_level``, and ``num_steps`` for denoising.

Dependency Installation
-----------------------

To ensure perfect compatibility between the high-version Torch (2.8.0) and RLinf (Python 3.10), we have encapsulated the complex dependency isolation logic into an installation script. Please follow the steps below to build a hybrid environment.

1. Clone the RLinf Repository
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, clone the RLinf repository and enter the main directory:

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/RLinf/RLinf.git
    cd RLinf
    export RLINF_PATH=$(pwd)

2. Install Dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Option 1: Docker Image**

Run embodied training based on RoboTwin using the Docker image:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker run -it --rm --gpus all \
      --shm-size 20g \
      --network host \
      --name rlinf \
      -v .:/workspace/RLinf \
      rlinf/rlinf:embodied-rlinf0.1-robotwin

Please switch to the corresponding virtual environment via the built-in `switch_env` utility in the image:

.. code-block:: bash

    source switch_env lingbotvla

**Option 2: Custom Environment**

Install the Lingbot-VLA native environment and RoboTwin base dependencies in one command (the script will automatically pull the lingbot-vla source code to the `.venv/lingbot-vla` directory and handle all high-risk dependency conflicts):

.. code-block:: bash

    bash requirements/install.sh embodied --model lingbotvla --env robotwin --use-mirror --no-root
    source .venv/bin/activate

3. RoboTwin Environment Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Since the built-in RLinf environment does not contain the complete RoboTwin source code, you need to manually pull the ``RLinf_support`` branch of RoboTwin.

.. code-block:: bash

    cd ${RLINF_PATH}
    git clone https://github.com/RoboTwin-Platform/RoboTwin.git -b RLinf_support
    cd RoboTwin
    export ROBOTWIN_PATH=$(pwd)
    export HF_ENDPOINT=https://hf-mirror.com
    bash script/_download_assets.sh

Model Download
--------------

Before starting training, download the Lingbot-VLA base weights and the Qwen backbone model from HuggingFace:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Enter the lingbot-vla directory automatically generated by install.sh
    export LINGBOTVLA_PATH="${RLINF_PATH}/.venv/lingbot-vla"
    cd ${LINGBOTVLA_PATH}

    # Method 1: Using git clone
    git lfs install
    git clone https://huggingface.co/robbyant/lingbot-vla-4b
    git clone https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2.5-VL-3B-Instruct

    # Method 2: Using huggingface-hub
    pip install huggingface-hub
    huggingface-cli download robbyant/lingbot-vla-4b --local-dir lingbot-vla-4b
    huggingface-cli download Qwen/Qwen2.5-VL-3B-Instruct --local-dir Qwen2.5-VL-3B-Instruct
    
    # Avoid the nested folder trap that may occur during download
    cd lingbot-vla-4b
    mv lingbot-vla-4b/* . 
    rmdir lingbot-vla-4b
    cd ..

Then set ``rollout.model.model_path`` and ``actor.model.model_path`` in the configuration to the local path (e.g., ``/path/to/model/lingbot-vla-4b`` or ``./lingbot-vla-4b``).

Quick Start
-----------

Configuration File
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Lingbotvla + GRPO + RoboTwin:
  ``examples/embodiment/config/robotwin_click_bell_grpo_lingbotvla.yaml``

Key Config Snippets
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The top-level file dynamically assembles the environment and model via Hydra, and directly overrides the core SDE sampling parameters required for GRPO reinforcement learning under `actor.model`.

**Note**: Because Lingbot-VLA uses the unified global normalization keys (e.g., `action.arm.position`) from `robotwin_50.json`, there is **no need to configure or override** `unnorm_key` when switching between different tasks, enabling truly smooth multi-task transfer.

.. code-block:: yaml

    rollout:
      model:
        model_type: "lingbotvla"
        model_path: "/path/to/model/lingbotvla"

    actor:
      model:
        model_path: "/path/to/model/lingbotvla"
        model_type: "lingbotvla"
        action_dim: 14
        num_action_chunks: 50
        num_steps: 10              
        noise_method: "flow_sde"   
        noise_level: 0.5           
        action_env_dim: 14         

Launch Command
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To start training with the selected configuration, run the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    bash examples/embodiment/run_embodiment.sh CHOSEN_CONFIG

For example, to train the Lingbot-VLA model with the GRPO algorithm on the RoboTwin Click Bell task:

.. code-block:: bash

    bash examples/embodiment/run_embodiment.sh robotwin_click_bell_grpo_lingbotvla

Evaluation
----------

Lingbot-VLA provides an end-to-end evaluation script for various tasks in the RoboTwin environment (using the bell task as an example):

.. code-block:: bash

    bash examples/embodiment/eval_embodiment.sh robotwin_click_bell_eval_lingbotvla

For RLinf's unified VLA evaluation flow, please refer to the `VLA Evaluation Documentation <https://rlinf.readthedocs.io/en/latest/rst_source/start/vla-eval.html>`_.

Visualization and Results
-------------------------

**TensorBoard Logging**

.. code-block:: bash

    tensorboard --logdir ../results --port 6006

**Key Metrics**

* **Training**: ``train/actor/policy_loss``, ``train/actor/entropy_loss``, ``train/actor/approx_kl``
* **Environment**: ``env/success_once`` (episodic success rate), ``env/episode_len``, ``env/reward``
